[Theming] Docs (#2871)
evidence-dev/evidence: sites/docs/pages/reference/themes/index.md

sidebar_badge: New!
---

Customize the appearance of your Evidence application in light and dark mode using our theming system.

# Appearance

Evidence supports three appearance modes: `light`, `dark`, and `system`. An unconfigured Evidence application will use `light` mode and not allow switching appearances. Evidence includes a built-in dark mode without any configuration necessary.

When the appearance is `system`, the user's preferred appearance from their operating system is used.

To enable appearance modes in your app, add the following to your `evidence.config.yaml` file:

```yaml
appearance:
    default: system 
    switcher: true
```

## Options

<PropListing
    name="appearance.default"
    description="The default appearance mode."
    options={['dark', 'light', 'system']}
    defaultValue="light"
/>
<PropListing
    name="appearance.switcher"
    description="Enables/disables the appearance switcher in the kebab menu in the top right, allowing users to switch the appearance of your application between light and dark mode."
    options={['true', 'false']}
    defaultValue="false"
/>

# Theme

> The theme configuration defines the colors used by your application for everything on the page including the background, text, inputs, and charts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The theme configuration defines the colors used by your app.
```

> The theme consists of 3 sections that define colors for different purposes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The theme consists of 3 elements that define colors for different purposes:
```

> - `colorPalettes` configures colors for charts with different data series (e.g. [Bar Charts](/components/bar-chart/#props-colorPalette), [Line Charts](/components/line-chart/#props-colorPalette)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `colorPalettes` configure colors for charts with different data series (e.g. [Bar Charts](/components/bar-chart/#props-colorPalette)).
```

Author: This is written like a sentence, "color palettes configures", not like a definition `color palettes: configure`. I'd prefer to leave it as I think its easier to read this way.

And why remove the bar charts link?

> - `colorScales` configures color ranges for charts with continuous data<!-- (e.g. [Heatmaps](/components/heatmap/#props-colorScale), [Area Maps](/components/area-map/#props-colorScale), [Data Tables](/components/data-table/#props-colorScale)). -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `colorScales` configure color ranges for charts with continuous data<!-- (e.g. [Heatmaps](/components/heatmap/#props-colorScale)) -->.
```

> - `colors` configures page colors (e.g. background, text, inputs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `colors` configure page colors (e.g. background, text, inputs).
```

Author: This is written like a sentence, "colors configures ...", not like a definition "colors: configure ...". I'd prefer to leave it as I think its easier to read this way.

                - "#d2c6ac"
                - "#f4b548"
                - "#8f3d56"
                - "#71b9f4"
                - "#46a485"
    colorScales:
        default:
            light:
                - "#ADD8E6"
                - "#00008B"
            dark:
                - "#ADD8E6"
                - "#00008B"
    colors:
        primary:
            light: "#2563eb"
            dark: "#3b82f6"
        accent:
            light: "#c2410c"
            dark: "#fdba74"
        base:
            light: "#ffffff"
            dark: "#09090b"
        info:
            light: "#0284c7"
            dark: "#38bdf8"
        positive:
            light: "#16a34a"
            dark: "#4ade80"
        warning:
            light: "#f8c900"
            dark: "#fbbf24"
        negative:
            light: "#dc2626"
            dark: "#f87171"
```

</Details>

</Alert>

## Color Palettes

You can modify the default chart color palette, or create a custom palette for individual charts via their `colorPalette` prop.

Color palettes can have any number of colors listed. If a chart has more series than there are colors in a color palette, the colors will be reused.

> ### `default` Color Palette

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Default Color Palette
```

> The default color palette is used by all series-based charts (e.g. [Bar Charts](/components/bar-chart/#props-colorPalette), [Line Charts](/components/line-chart/#props-colorPalette)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `default` color palette is used by all series-based charts (e.g. [Bar Charts](/components/bar-chart/#props-colorPalette), [Line Charts](/components/line-chart/#props-colorPalette)).
```

You can configure the default color palette for light and dark mode individually (different colors for each):

```yaml
theme:
    colorPalettes:
        default:
            light:
                - "#1d4ed8"
                - "#0f766e"
                - "#a16207"
                - "#c2410c"
                - "#7e22ce"
            dark:
                - "#93c5fd"
                - "#5eead4"
                - "#fde047"
                - "#fdba74"
                - "#d8b4fe"
```

...or together (same colors for both):

```yaml
theme:
    colorPalettes:
        default:
            - "#3b82f6"
            - "#14b8a6"
            - "#eab308"
            - "#f97316"
            - "#a855f7"
```

### Custom Color Palettes

You can define your own custom color palettes in the same way, just replace `default` with your color palette's name:

```yaml
theme:
    colorPalettes:
        myCustomPalette:
            light:
                - "#e11d48"
                - "#be185d"
                - "#6d28d9"
            dark:
                - "#fb7185"
                - "#f9a8d4"
                - "#c4b5fd"
```

> Then use it like so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then use it in the `colorPalette` prop
```

```markdown
<BarChart 
    data={my_data}
    colorPalette=myCustomPalette
/>
```

### Props

The `colorPalette` prop accepted by many components accepts a color palette in several different formats to reduce the friction of theming your app.

> 1. Use a list of colors (e.g. hex codes). They will be automatically converted to similar colors for dark mode.

Author: [994fd23](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence/pull/2871/commits/994fd234ed7a16c093b8a43876136acda0f77236)

> ```markdown

Author: I had actually just numbered them incorrectly. Fixed here [15a0f6e](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence/pull/2871/commits/15a0f6e613f99407a569a8a5aa9d58c07642912a)

<BarChart
    data={my_data}
    colorPalette={[
        "#3b82f6",
        "#14b8a6",
        "#eab308",
        "#f97316",
        "#a855f7",
    ]}
/>
```

2. Use a list of pairs of colors to explicitly define light and dark mode values. The first column will be used when your application is in light mode, and the second when its in dark mode.
```markdown
<BarChart
    data={my_data}
    colorPalette={[
        ["#1d4ed8", "#93c5fd"],
        ["#0f766e", "#5eead4"],
        ["#a16207", "#fde047"],
        ["#c2410c", "#fdba74"],
        ["#7e22ce", "#d8b4fe"],
    ]}
>
```

3. Use a list of color names from your theme. Their configured light and dark values will be used.
```markdown
<BarChart
    data={my_data}
    colorPalette={[
        'primary',
        'accent',
        'myCustomColor',
    ]}
>
```

> 2. Use a color palette name from your theme. Its configured light and dark values will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Use a color palette name from your theme. Its configured light and dark values will be used.
```

Author: [15a0f6e](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence/pull/2871/commits/15a0f6e613f99407a569a8a5aa9d58c07642912a)

```markdown
<BarChart 
    data={my_data}
    colorPalette=myColorPalette
/>
```

## Color Scales

You can modify the default chart color palette, or create a custom palette for individual charts via their `colorScale` prop.

Color scales can have any number of colors listed. The colors will be blended into a gradient for values to interpolate from.

> ### `default` Color Scale

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Default Color Scale
```

> The default color scale is used by charts that represent continuous data<!-- (e.g. [Heatmaps](/components/heatmap/#props-colorScale), [Area Maps](/components/area-map/#props-colorScale), [Data Tables](/components/data-table/#props-colorScale) -->.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `default` color scale is used by charts that represent continuous data<!-- (e.g. [Heatmaps](/components/heatmap/#props-colorScale), [Area Maps](/components/area-map/#props-colorScale), [Data Tables](/components/data-table/#props-colorScale) -->.
```

You can configure the default color palette for light and dark mode individually (different colors for each):

```yaml
theme:
    colorScales:
        default:
            light:
                - "#0d9488"
                - "#4f46e5"
            dark:
                - "#5eead4"
                - "#a5b4fc"
```

...or together (same colors for both):

```yaml
theme:
    colorScales:
        default:
            - "#eab308"
            - "#22c55e"
```

### Custom Color Scales

You can define your own custom color scales in the same way, just replace `default` with your color scale's name:

```yaml
theme:
    colorScales:
        myCustomScale:
            light:
                - "#f97316"
                - "#ef4444"
            dark:
                - "#fdba74"
                - "#fb7185"
```

> Then use it like so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then use it in the `colorScale` prop
```

	select '<span class="font-semibold text-warning">warning</span>', 'Warn readers', 'Alerts, annotations' union all
	select '<span class="font-semibold text-negative">negative</span>', 'Indicate something is bad', 'Alerts, annotations, Delta indicator'
```

<DataTable data={color_tokens}>
	<Column id=color title=Color contentType=html />
	<Column id=purpose title=Purpose />
	<Column id=where-its-used title="Where its used" />
</DataTable>

You can modify existing color tokens, or create your own to use in charts and other UI elements.

### Overriding Colors

You can override a color for light and dark mode individually (different colors for each):

```yaml
theme:
	colors:
		primary:
			light: "#dc2626"
			dark: "#f87171"
		accent:
			light: "#7c3aed"
			dark: "#a78bfa"
```

...or together (same colors for both):

```yaml
theme:
	colors:
		primary: "#ef4444"
		accent: "#a855f7"
```

### Defining Your Own Colors

You can define your own custom colors in the same way, just replace the color name with your custom color's name:

```yaml
theme:
	colors:
		myColor: "#10b981"
		myOtherColor:
			light: "#c026d3"
			dark: "#f472b6"
```

> Then use them like so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then use them in component props
```

```markdown
<Tabs color=myColor>
	<Tab label="Tab 1" id="tab1">Tab 1 content</Tab>
	<Tab label="Tab 2" id="tab2">Tab 2 content</Tab>
</Tabs>
```

```markdown
<BarChart
	data={my_data}
	fillColor=myOtherColor
/>
```

### Props

The color props accepted by many components (e.g. [`fillColor`](/components/bar-chart/#props-fillColor), [`labelColor`](/components/annotations/#props-labelColor)) accept a color in several different formats to reduce the friction of theming your app.

1. Use a single color (e.g. hex code). It will be automatically converted to a similar color for dark mode.
```markdown
<BarChart
    data={my_data}
    fillColor="#3b82f6"
/>
```

2. Use a pair of colors to explicitly define light and dark mode values. The first color will be used when your application is in light mode, and the second when its in dark mode.
```markdown
<BarChart
    data={my_data}
    fillColor={["#1d4ed8", "#93c5fd"]}

> >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/>
```

```

3. Use a color name from your theme. Its configured light and dark values will be used.
```markdown
<BarChart
    data={my_data}
    fillColor=primary

> >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/>
```

---
sidebar_position: 4
hide_table_of_contents: false
title: Themes

> description: Customize the appearance of your Evidence application in light and dark mode using our theming system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: Customize the appearance of your Evidence application in light and dark mode using the theming system.
```

Author: [daacf62](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence/pull/2871/commits/daacf623b0e6ff1cb46344146887cf83f6f15820)

sidebar_badge: New!
---

Customize the appearance of your Evidence application in light and dark mode using our theming system.

> # Appearance

Reviewer 2: Should this section be called dark mode, or appearance mode?

Author: Changed to "Appearance Modes" here [c59c9a8](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence/pull/2871/commits/c59c9a8c249059e069aa0f3eb099bcc4068d47f2)

> Evidence supports three appearance modes: `light`, `dark`, and `system`. An unconfigured Evidence application will use `light` mode and not allow switching appearances. Evidence includes a built-in dark mode without any configuration necessary.

Author: I had purposefully phrased it this way ("An unconfigured Evidence application") because the template does include themes/dark mode by default. So the phrase "By default" depends on when your app was created for it to be true.

```yaml
appearance:
    default: system 
    switcher: true
```

## Options

<PropListing
    name="default"
    description="The default appearance mode."
    options={['dark', 'light', 'system']}
    defaultValue="light"
/>
<PropListing
    name="switcher"
    description="Enables/disables the appearance switcher in the kebab menu in the top right, allowing users to switch the appearance of your application between light and dark mode."
    options={['true', 'false']}
    defaultValue="false"
/>

# Theme

The theme configuration defines the colors used by your app.

The theme consists of 3 elements that define colors for different purposes:

- [Color palettes](#color-palettes) configure colors for charts with different data series (e.g. [Bar Charts](/components/bar-chart/#props-colorPalette)).
- [Color scales](#color-scales) configure color ranges for charts with continuous data<!--(e.g. [Heatmaps](/components/heatmap/#props-colorScale))-->.
- [Colors](#colors) configure colors of UI elements (e.g. background, text, inputs).

You can pass any valid CSS color values to these properties (hexadecimal, RGB, HSL, named CSS colors, etc).

> <Alert status=info>

Author: [2f5acab](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence/pull/2871/commits/2f5acab647f38ecc4ec9a5f6176bdeb91559724d)

> The default configuration is accessible below, as well as in the [Evidence Template](https://github.com/evidence-dev/templates/blob/main/evidence.config.yaml).

Author: How about "default theme configuration"?

> The default configuration is accessible below, as well as in the [Evidence Template](https://github.com/evidence-dev/templates/blob/main/evidence.config.yaml).

Author: [ad0d8df](https://github.com/evidence-dev/evidence/pull/2871/commits/ad0d8df681cedd3fbc7e979d3e1220be274dcd98)
